hey friends welcome to the ipfs weekly
cool it's the 5th of August in the year
2019 there's a gender people should feel
free to add things that they want to add
to it but for kicking us off I have a
couple of announcements if anyone has
any others please add them to the dock
or show in the chat I'm going to share
my screen real quick too many desktops
hey I Defence weekly that's me and some
of this um feel free to interrupt me I
can't follow along with the text chat at
the same time is presenting I have a
very simple brain so please unmute
yourself and holler at me if there's
anything you want a question if there's
any statements you like to make or
controversial remarks you'd like to
interject with anyway
announcements for those of you who
weren't lucky enough to be at ipfs camp
you should know that the first batch of
videos is online it's on our YouTube and
you can see it on the blog there's been
a lengthy tabular blog post the lists
the lightning talks there were many and
they were great and the deep dives look
at all this content it's great good idea
that stuff you might even see your own
face there so if you haven't seen
anything from my kick-ass camp yet that
is a good place to start there are some
amazing winey books which are people's
personal interest projects done in 5
sometimes 10 minutes and then there are
deep dives no closed sessions deep like
something released yet and poster
sessions are where we took a topic back
together with penance and tried to
summon the educational skills to present
back to the group a reasonable
explanation of how a given piece of idea
best works there are videos each chakra
ipfs project q3 priorities and working
groups this is a big subject so I
suggest you read the blog post but the
main point from it is that we noticed
that there were some some challenges
that we were facing in last couple of
quarters and some issues are
working group arrangement was letting a
couple of high-priority things fall
through the cracks so we have realigned
ourselves so this blog post does a
better job than I would do of
summarizing all those things that
happened so I suggest to read it but you
should know that some of the old working
groups are paused and there are some new
task focused working groups looking at
things such as the Gateway performance
and package managers summers in the chat
you should just holler at me
doo-doo-doo-doo for this bids outrageous
anyway
documentation is a very important thing
to me
various things that people were saying
repeatedly that could be much better we
are now focused around this issues check
out the blog post it's really great
alright what else is happening well I'm
gonna give you a quick tool of some
helpful ipfs tools at all around me I'll
give a shipyard no captain's hat was
available this is not a useful stand-in
so we'll move on if you don't know I
give the shipyard is a github repository
and a state of mind it is it's a get up
org sorry where we put projects that are
incubating ideas they've had it's open
to the community if you've got an idea
that you want a host there you should
get involved and it's basically a
hundred and ten different repositories
of ideas of tools that build on ipfs or
tools that help you work with O'Keefe s
or just just I give anything does so
with that okay fess org we want to be a
bit more focused and these are things
that are either like language specific
implementations of my PFS or tools that
you can't really use ipfs without
shipyard is that everything else it's
for any wild idea you have about the D
work so there is now a lot of
interesting things in there and I've
worked on a few of them so this is a
quick tour around them this is brand new
you may have heard of it it's IP this
deploy it was created by a github user
called agent of user and it is I don't
know if my videos are there
its goal is to make it as easy as
possible to deploy a static websites to
ipfs and it's very cool he did all of
the groundwork to make this tool very
functional in the sense that
it's you installing for NPN you run one
command in a directory that has a static
website in and it's published to a
pinning service of your choice and then
within one point you have a download
link of Harry's or website published
IGFs and the gift shows you know he has
been running with this for a good few
months it works great but it is now up
on ipfs shipyard he felt that he
couldn't do a good great job of
continuing the maintenance so it's now
it's now a project that you can get
anyone contribute to it some shipyard
it's basically open open source come and
help us make it even better so this is a
quick example of how that works so I've
got a website directory here with an
index.html in and the point here is it's
a one click one command IP that's
deployed and I deployed this dot for
this folder and what it's going to do is
it has sensible defaults so in Fuhrer
has a free free free tier that lets you
deploy things that ipfs without any
credentials so what that's kind of done
is it's bundled up my directory and it's
pinned it to inferior it's got the hash
back and then it copied it to the
clipboard and told me which gateway I
could go and see it on and then it
opened it in my browser
I mean static website publishing has
never been so easy pretty good
doo-doo-doo-doo slides the CID inspector
ever wanted to see inside us nearly yeah
surely you have see IDs
apart from being content addresses are
structured and they are self describing
so with the CID inspector website CID
doe-eyed EFS died oh it's nice and meta
because the website is hosted on our kfs
and it lets you explore see IDs that
you've loaded content to archivists what
it lets do is paste in any CID you find
into this box and it will unpack it for
you and show you the structure that lies
within so we can see that this CID is
telling us that it's base 58 deep
bitcoin encoded it's a version 0
it's a damn it's good that's
Multi codecov dag PB dad protobuf which
means that this hash points to a block
that is encoded with protobufs and it
tells you the multi hash so we know that
it's a char to 256 and then finally ends
with the hexadecimal digest the actual
hash that's pretty cool
what else is called is it also shows you
that it foreshadows the future the sweet
sweet based thirty-two CID v1 future
where C IDs will no longer start with QN
oh no
they'll all be case insensitive based 32
encoded so this CID here when translated
into version 1 basically looks like
baffi and if we paste that in here you
can see now that this is a base 32 CID
and it's a version one but it still
points to the same Thank You B hash
underneath very cool
the other cool thing that it does is if
you are getting down and dirty with the
code and you got changing things and you
start generating incorrect CID somehow
because you're changing code and you're
breaking things that's that it spits out
the error messages that the CID library
would give you so this I can see I'm
just deleting characters from the Saudi
and it's telling me that my multi hash
length is inconsistent which is very
sort but you can say like what if I put
a rocket in there it's just bananas so
they have some non base 58 character
which is a reasonable stab at an error
message for CID that is only composed of
a pocket of aramis's so that is so
beautiful if you're developing one like
this or if they're just curious as to
what is the structure versus the ID then
CID directly this diode is your friend
well stack visualizer this was a treat
that Alan sure and I worked on to help
explain the tree structure the blocks
the connections between them and for the
IP this camp if you haven't seen it it's
totally rad so lets you pick file let's
say pictures let's say the classic
mister welcome to the internet cat drop
them in wait a moment
i PFS is doing its work so jess
give us in the browser has just taken up
foil chunked it up to the green squares
are the leaves that's where the actual
data of the image is and the blue
circles are the metadata that ipfs add
this is your Merkle tree this is the
graph structure that explains this file
in IPS temps and we have often talked
about this and referred to it in the
documentation but we've never had a
really clear visualization of it like
this so hat tip to ensure they're making
it so grow you can see there at the
bottom the CID he's caught use the only
one with a hat to tip check it out look
at all those books and the other fun
thing is it lets you jiggle around with
the parameters that you might Center I'd
give us add to encode this thing's so if
you were to re-encode it with larger
chunks kelsa pries you get fewer blocks
and once more for the non-believers the
larger blocks till you see your box
cutter Thank You IPS - oh it's a tree
why else have we got some simpler tools
out there that worth knowing about ipfs
walk gateway this is a super simple tool
this shows you the kind of breadth of
stuff that's on Shipyard but hats off to
henry building this is basically in
situations like in continuous
integration or local bear if you want
something that works everywhere and that
uses the best available mechanism for
getting the files so it's a downloader
so you give it a CID and it'll either
download it via IP FS if it's available
and if I give that's a local instance of
IPs it's not available then it will fall
back to trying an HTTP gateway and
downloading it over HTTP and it's nice
and simple as you can see and you can
run it cuz it's from NPM you can run it
straight from EDX which is support ipfs
provider this is somewhat new it's got a
bad name because I think this has a
notion of providers internally this
isn't about reap rewards in ipfs telling
us to tell the DHT every 12 hours that
you wanna think oh no
this is a small JavaScript library that
was extracted from IDF s Redux bundle
that powers the IDF s webview and what
it does is if you're building a web app
that wants to talk to an IP FS instance
it basically just hides the boilerplate
of trying a bunch of different locations
for in MI Pearson API so my fancy web
app first thing it tries is the web
extension so if you're running our
dearest companion hmm then it will
inject a window to ipfs into your
current web page so this library will
check for that and if it can't find
window type EFS it will fall back to
trying the using the Jas ipfs HTTP
client with all of the defaults so if
you're running expanded instance it's
may be provided by IP of us desktop and
you've got an API available on port 5001
then this will let your web app try and
connect to it if they can't connect to
that then it falls back again and we'll
use Jas I give s so try and use a
external locally hosted ipfs if
available but if none available then run
an in-browser ksickafus and this library
basically just does a bunch of hides a
bunch of checks to see the finder
simplest way to check for the existence
of each of those things and so
eventually it spits out a here isn't I
give s and your complexity is hidden
from your web app the idea is web UI
this has some new treats in this is old
news to anyone who's used ipfs but one
of these windows status and reek again
has been motoring ahead and he's dropped
in some new treats to the files browser
including being able to view your pins
so you can see here that I've got some
things some of those things are like the
cool scene from the Martian but what if
I want to see what files I've got pinned
well there we go
you've got a little pins cam on the top
and you can now see that these are some
see IDs that I have pinned and possibly
by the command line all via the UI you
can
in an unclean things directly this has
been something that we've been
struggling to visualize since web UI is
inception so you have the MF s listed
under the files Bob and then you have
the pins universe listed under the pins
blog at some point we're considering
having a way of visualizing any single
CID that's in your repo but for now this
is a little bit progress and I think we
can do things like yeah we can pin
things straight from the web UI Mouse
and I get that little pin icon and this
is brand new it's not available with any
release of ipfs yet and but I just want
to showcase it real quick the other
thing that's been going on was web UI is
there's been some improvements to the
peers page there's still a lot to do but
we just got what we were noticing since
the rollout of relays in IP offense we
were noticing that the old layout of the
peers list struggled to usefully
visualize the information about which
peers you were connected to because if
you were connected to a dozen different
peers through one relay you only saw the
peer ID for the relay not the 12
individual peers so we've reorganized
things so that the peer IDs are nice and
clear and there are some additional
notes which that come along with identic
ons so that you can very quickly see
when you're connected to multiple peers
and fire the same relay a quick scroll
reveals you know there's there's every
single pair ID is unique but in the
notes section you can see that there are
recurring pairs there because you've got
many many three one one to many
connections
that's our did you do
the other trick in the new web UI is
there is the status bar at so this used
to jump you to the IP of the Explorer
but is now useful for exploring any CID
so open any arbitrary content that you
are interested in in the files Explorer
and show you it they're due to do
and there's so much more I recommend you
take a peruse round the long list of
exciting things in leadership but things
know about the service work at Gateway
is sitting sitting pretty on a picker
shipler this runs and jsrf s node as a
service worker so you can pop quietly
and transparently upgrade your web apps
with EFS super parents
there's mr. Shores Jaso Kiev s
httpclient light this is a 20 kilobyte
experimental ipfs HTTP client for the
browser one thing that often surprised
surprises people about the existing HTTP
client is it is quite large but this is
deliberate so that it has a perfectly
matching API with Janus IVFs so that you
can swap what the two in and out but as
an experiment we now have this super
minimal HTTP client as well I need to
check out a lot of the good ideas and
that one are going to make their way
back to the non like regular client to
slim it down and other fun things
there's the ipfs github action if you
are running your own IP fest cluster you
might want to in my PFF websites from
pull requests this is something that we
use internally when building ideas so a
lot of our websites use this or they use
a similar thing which is optimized for
circle CI but this is something that you
can add to your if you if you weren't
lucky enough to be using github actions
already then this is a fun thing you can
add to your repo to whenever there is a
PR or something there's some master you
can have that the content of that you
get hub repo posted to an I success
cluster get your CID for that directory
and add it as a status on your github
cool request which is very cool and that
is a whistle-stop tour of the octopus
shipyard active shipyard is open to you
I mean all of IPS is open to you but if
you don't know where to start
there's a much lower barrier active
sheet right it's less scary just for
wild ideas and fun things and if you
still feel like you need some support
well you should know that there is an IP
FS office hours
every week before this one so if you
know how to get to this call you know
how to get to the office hours calls
it's the same zoom URL it's me the same
face there's also if you're interested
specifically and web apps using IPA bets
or you're interested in how I give s is
going to get into browsers then you
should join in the IQ person but
browsers include three Wednesday and
some information is kind of hard to find
unless you know already about the ipfs
community can't
which is super round and this was the
one thing that seems to be like once you
know about the Uglies community calendar
you know about everything new so you
should find out about it add it to your
calendar it's got all interesting info
will discover that in seven minutes
there is core implementations call this
image may be old but the link is correct
and that is all from me is is there
anything wrong the agenda feel free to
unmute and horror awesome I love it um
I'm curious the CID inspector and the
dag Explorer which are both phenomenal
what is what is the plan to get those
embedded in useful learning places for
people to come in as they're trying to
grok these concepts and be able to dive
deeper because I love that they exist
and I want more people to be able to
find them in their time of need
so my answer to that is typically find a
way to get them in so I think that's
would be why the the tab UI on the left
is pretty amenable to having in these
additional tools and also there is the
ongoing I've DIF Doc's endeavor
so these those sites a super simple in
the sense that they're static so they're
very amenable to being embedded in a
more and a broader documentation effort
so we can have a web page that explains
the IDs more deeply and then can invest
to see how the inspector right in there
or at least link up to it and
question another question so much but a
and another data point on that is that
the ipfs camp videos for the core
courses will be coming out soon core
course a uses the CID inspector and the
dag Explorer quite heavily so when
you're watching those videos you can
play along and use them so that will be
another learning resource you know we
might want to also go back to protocol
and see if we want to integrate any of
those tools the way we integrate the IP
LD Explorer is that was us that we
haven't know now we're gonna be redoing
the data structures lesson that's like
part content versus location address
eight in part like vertical dag and
we'll need more content to fill in in
each of those so we can see if any of
this stuff is good fit
SuperDuper nice any other exciting
things that people are working on
burning questions challenges emotional
sharing hey Matt so I'll just call out
on this call that the calendar that
oddly just showed you includes a
Thursday call for part of school so if
anyone is interested in learning more
about proto school kind of following our
progress as we make improvements to the
content and the ueq
as more than welcome to join we just
released a feature under an under the
hood feature which is that you can now
create multiple-choice lessons that
means it has actually good true for a
long time that unless you're trying to
build code challenges you've been able
to build kind of text-only lessons
without being someone who codes or
without feet someone who knows
JavaScript that's still true but now you
can make more interactive lessons that
way so if in baby's help getting started
if you're thinking about something let
me know
and I'm happy to chat more about it
super cool go join the protocol cool all
right
I just we're now sharing cool stuff
that's happening and there was a really
awesome workshop last week run by Yanis
about all of these amazing kind of
academic tools and alternate DHT
constructions that we're looking into to
figure out ways to make FS scale even
better and if you want to have really
trippy dreams about dhts highly
recommend watching this video because
I've been having really really weird
multi sharted DHT dreams and that's a
weird world that everyone should join me
in you have the DHT dreams
just a quick kung-fu kind of reference
oh you know what well we have three
minutes I'll thank you if anybody was
really really excited to come to offline
camp and talk about all things offline
first whether or not the web specific
talked about making stuff work in crappy
network conditions and you were thinking
oh man I wish this event weren't August
2nd to 5th because I have this big
conflict you'll be pleased to know there
was wildfire and we couldn't have the
event last weekend and we're gonna do it
in late September September 27 to 30
please join me uh boy first I'd work
slash camp you know you want to come all
the cool kids are coming including some
people you see right now I feel very
conflicted about feeling good about that
oh actually Alex yes Alex I almost had
you on the hook except for the dates
you're in
what be there
two minutes left I will be responsible
for this I give us weekly call for at
least this month and I am on the lookout
for good talks
maybe tickling some of you and maybe
searching the wider Internet mats here
he looks like he wants to talk but also
in general some feedback I had just on
the office house calls with people
missed a little bit of the freeform part
of this call in the
the stalks tend to basically take about
25 minutes which is the bulk of the The
Book of the slot so one solution to that
is the same URL so this call is the
office hours call so you're welcome to
come and kick brains share it is on that
but also I'm on the lookout for
lightning talks 15 minutes 10 minutes 5
min is that also give us some room to
ask questions converse the 20 minute 25
minute my ones tend to crunch this time
right now and I'm keen to get a bit more
chat going on so bring your best chair
next week but it's got one minute left
say say what's on your mind now or hold
your peace for a whole week silence is
fine so everyone's happy then I'm
calling it
this was the ipfs weekly and it's been
the fit of August and you've all been
lovely and we'll see you again at same
time same zoom next week
[Music]